Well today I'd like to work on the fingers.
As I mentioned before I'm going to have these be separate pieces or a separate piece from the rest of
the character.
But I am going to begin with a cylinder like I have for the arms and legs so first of all what I'm going
to do is tab into edit mode for the body and just select an edge here and then I'm going to press shift.
Yes.
And I'm going to move the cursor to the selected edges here and now I'm going to tab back into object
mode.
Now when I create a cylinder it will pop into the location where the 3D cursor is.
So I'll come over here to the Create tab and click on cylinder and for this I think I only need 8 sides
for this particular object.
I'll turn off the cap.
Phil I don't need anything on the ends.
And now let me rotate in scale etc. this thing and tell it's about where we need it on the finger.
So I'm going to scale it down.
Rotate it a bit and just try and get it as well as I can.
So it's fitting around this object or this finger.
I'm going to switch to local transform orientation.
Just so when I go to the scale to it I can scale it in the length of the object there and I'll just
start rotating and moving it until I can get it right around that finger.
Now I think also I will tab into edit mode and add a few more cross sections here by pressing control
r and scrolling the mouse wheel and I'm going to need quite a few for this actually.
I'm going to give myself six edges.
Let's try that.
And I would also like to rotate this or I should say bend this at the joint here so it fits around the
finger a little better.
So I'm going to select this edge and then press control plus and expand the selection up to say here
and then I'll go ahead and move the pivot point of this rotation to the 3D cursor and I'll go to the
rotate tool and I'll just rotate this down a bit like this and then we go.
All right let's give this a try now.
I'm going to tab back into object mode.
I will go to the modifiers panel click add modifier and let's add the shrinkwrapped modifier.
And now for my target I'll just choose character because that's the character object.
And let's see how that works.
It's working pretty well.
There's some problems here you can see it's trying to pick up the other finger.
And that's the difficulty with something so close to another object there.
Let me try and move this just a hair.
So all I'm doing is just moving this in Object mode and you can see as I do it will pick up or move
off of that other finger so I'm just going to go with that.
I think right about there and then I'm going to come over here to the object panel and turn on x ray
Let's see what it looks like.
All right that's looking pretty good.
What I need to make sure of too is that there are edges at the joints.
So if I turn off x ray here and go into edit mode while the shrinkwrapped modifier is still on we can
take a look at the edges and where they're placed.
So this edge is placed pretty much on that joint.
That's good.
And this edge right here is placed pretty much on that joint.
So that's pretty good.
I think that will work.
So I'll tab back into object mode go back to the modifiers panel and just click apply.
And there we go.
Now that modifier is baked permanently into the object.
It looks like I could move these points down a bit so I may do a little bit of work just moving points
around.
I think I'd better turn on the snap tool.
I'll do that.
And now as I move things around they should snap to the object.
So
and I'm just moving these to get them in line with that joint.
And this one up here looks pretty good.
I think I might move this down a bit and I can slide this edge down by pressing G twice I'll hit G two
times and now it'll slide along that edge.
I can move these down to about here and do that and move this joint up a little bit.
And I what I want is three edges for every joint.
So if this joint is going to bend here I've got an edge on either side to help hold the shape of the
mesh when it bends.
So maybe I'll add one right in here as well.
Like that.
I'll turn the pivot point back to medium point and if I like this I wonder if I can rotate it a bit
and we go and slide it around some and we go so now let me turn on x ray and let's take a look at that.
Yes so we've got the bend happening in the finger here and the bend happening here.
I think that'll worked out alright.
Let's now think about that fingernail what are we going to do with this.
Well I think what I want to try is selecting this edge right here on the top of the fingernail.
And I'd like to extrude this down so I'm just going to hit me and pull down here.
And I want to snap these two.
The fingernail.
Actually I'm a turn off x ray for just a moment and try and move these with the G key so they snap to
the fingernail
I'd like to extrude them one more time.
Now we pull these down a bit and right down to the tip of that fingernail.
And I will snap these.
Now what I'm going to need to do is extrude these to give it thickness on the back because if we see
it from the back we don't want to see through the back of the polygons and then are connected up with
these edges here.
So let's try that.
I will select these points here.
Extrude and pull down a bit and then I just need to connect these up now.
So I'll take it easy and pull them back.
This should come over here.
And then we can begin hooking these up.
So these four points can be a face and these four points can be a face like so and now I want to select
these points around here.
And extrude these down to the tip of the finger like that and will then connect these up to the fingernail
let me turn this off real quick and snap these
I will connect these up and extrude and pull these out and snap these to these points with Allt.
And then at last
and then finally connect these up so I'm going to hit this point this point this one and this one and
connect it and then do the same with this over here.
And then you can see I've got some interesting work to do here.
What I'll do for this is just insert one edge loop here.
And then connect these up like so
there we go.
And do the same thing over here.
So that gives us a good beginning to the finger.
Now I will probably go ahead and add a cylinder for each one of these and do a similar thing.
You could also duplicate this duplicate this object and move it over and scale it to fit each of the
fingers.
But I think I will go ahead and add each cylinder so they fit kind of exactly to the model.
And in the next video we'll work on connecting all the fingers up and extruding them back into the glove.